content/source-ics4u/shared/Exercises/Programming Puzzles.md, before:

---
tags:
created: 2024-10-01T00:00:00.000-0400
createdForSectionTwo: 2024-10-01T00:34:55.000-0400
draft: false
draftSectionTwo: false
---

This post serves to provide convenient links to reviews of programming concepts such as:

- [[Operators]]
- [[Concepts/Loops|Loops]]
- [[Selection Statements]]

> [!TIP]
> 
> The above links are new concept summaries, each with a few practice exercises.
> 
> Mr. Gordon used a couple of different large language models to generate these, then proof-read them and corrected a variety of errors. 

You can hone your programming skills, using these concepts, by trying the following puzzles.

## Puzzles

For each puzzle below, write both a command-line program with logic that solves the problem, and automated unit tests. You may use the [[Functions#Create a function|getInput function]] to collect user input.

1. [[Friendly Numbers]]
2. [[Chip's Fast Food Emporium]]

> [!TIP]
> 
> If at all possible, do **not** try these puzzles alone. Work with a friend from class. Try some examples out on a whiteboard or a sheet of paper. Then describe in point-form English what steps you need to take to solve the program in code. Try to apply the concept of [[Functional Decomposition|functional decomposition]] to break the larger problem up into smaller parts – using functions also makes your code testable.

Here is an example of Mr. Gordon following the process described above to solve the ISBN Numbers puzzle – note that this video has chapters to allow you to hone in on the part of the problem solving process you are most interested in:

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
	<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1014081334?h=757e1b5dfa&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479&portrait=0&byline=0&title=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Opening the Teamspace">
	</iframe>
	</div>
<script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>

Commit message:

Added page re: counting using loops, adding functions

content/source-ics4u/shared/Exercises/Programming Puzzles.md, after:

---
tags:
created: 2024-10-01T00:00:00.000-0400
createdForSectionTwo: 2024-10-01T00:34:55.000-0400
draft: false
draftSectionTwo: false
---

## Concepts

This post serves to provide convenient links to reviews of programming concepts such as:

- [[Operators]]
- [[Concepts/Loops|Loops]]
- [[Selection Statements]]

> [!TIP]
> 
> The above links are new concept summaries, each with a few practice exercises.
> 
> Mr. Gordon used a couple of different large language models to generate these, then proof-read them and corrected a variety of errors. 

You can hone your programming skills, using these concepts, by trying the following puzzles.

## Recap

Optionally, you could review [[Loops, Counters, Functions|these two brief videos]] where Mr. Gordon identifies:

1. how to use a loop to count occurrences of a certain condition
2. how to separate the logic into individual functions

## Puzzles

For each puzzle below, write both a command-line program with logic that solves the problem, and automated unit tests. You may use the [[Functions#Create a function|getInput function]] to collect user input.

1. [[Friendly Numbers]]
2. [[Chip's Fast Food Emporium]]

> [!TIP]
> 
> If at all possible, do **not** try these puzzles alone. Work with a friend from class. Try some examples out on a whiteboard or a sheet of paper. Then describe in point-form English what steps you need to take to solve the program in code. Try to apply the concept of [[Functional Decomposition|functional decomposition]] to break the larger problem up into smaller parts – using functions also makes your code testable.

Here is an example of Mr. Gordon following the process described above to solve the ISBN Numbers puzzle – note that this video has chapters to allow you to hone in on the part of the problem solving process you are most interested in:

<div style="padding:56.25% 0 0 0;position:relative;">
	<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/1014081334?h=757e1b5dfa&amp;badge=0&amp;autopause=0&amp;player_id=0&amp;app_id=58479&portrait=0&byline=0&title=0" frameborder="0" allow="autoplay; fullscreen; picture-in-picture; clipboard-write" style="position:absolute;top:0;left:0;width:100%;height:100%;" title="Opening the Teamspace">
	</iframe>
	</div>
<script src="https://player.vimeo.com/api/player.js"></script>
